README.md, before:

# react-native-viewpager

[![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/tree/master)
[![npm package](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40react-native-community%2Fviewpager.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40react-native-community%2Fviewpager)
[![Lean Core Extracted](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lean%20Core-Extracted-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/23313)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager?color=blue)](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/blob/master/LICENSE)

This component allows the user to swipe left and right through pages of data. Under the hood it is using the native [Android ViewPager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v4/view/ViewPager) and the [iOS UIPageViewController](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uipageviewcontroller) implementations. [See it in action!](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager#preview)

<img src="docs/viewpager-logo.png" alt="ViewPager" width="500" height="500">

## Versions

| 1.x              | 2.x              | 3.x              | 4.x                |
| ---------------- | -------------    | -------------    | -------------      |
|                  | iOS support      | iOS support      | iOS support        |
| Android support  | Android support  | AndroidX support | ViewPager2 support |

## Getting started

`yarn add @react-native-community/viewpager`

## Linking 

### >= 0.60

Autolinking will just do the job.

### < 0.60

#### Mostly automatic

`react-native link @react-native-community/viewpager`

#### Manual linking

<details>
<summary>Manually link the library on iOS</summary>
</br>

Follow the [instructions in the React Native documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/linking-libraries-ios#manual-linking) to manually link the framework or link using [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org) by adding this to your `Podfile`:

```ruby
pod 'react-native-viewpager', :path => '../node_modules/@react-native-community/viewpager'
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Manually link the library on Android</summary>
</br>
Make the following changes:

#### `android/settings.gradle`
```groovy
include ':@react-native-community_viewpager'
project(':@react-native-community_viewpager').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, '../node_modules/@react-native-community/viewpager/android')
```

#### `android/app/build.gradle`
```groovy
dependencies {
   ...
   implementation project(':@react-native-community_viewpager')
}
```

#### `android/app/src/main/.../MainApplication.java`
On top, where imports are:

```java
import com.reactnativecommunity.viewpager.RNCViewPagerPackage;
```

Add the `RNCViewPagerPackage` class to your list of exported packages.

```java
@Override
protected List<ReactPackage> getPackages() {
  return Arrays.<ReactPackage>asList(
    new MainReactPackage(),
    new RNCViewPagerPackage()
  );
}
```
</details>

## Usage

```js
import React from 'react';
import {StyleSheet, View, Text} from 'react-native';
import ViewPager from '@react-native-community/viewpager';

const MyPager = () => {
  return (
    <ViewPager style={styles.viewPager} initialPage={0}>
      <View key="1">
        <Text>First page</Text>
      </View>
      <View key="2">
        <Text>Second page</Text>
      </View>
    </ViewPager>
  );
};

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  viewPager: {
    flex: 1,
  },
});
```

## API

|Prop|Description|Platform|
|-|:-----:|:---:|
|`initialPage`|Index of initial page that should be selected|both
|`scrollEnabled: boolean`|Should viewpager scroll, when scroll enabled|both
|`onPageScroll: (e: PageScrollEvent) => void`|Executed when transitioning between pages (ether because the animation for the requested page has changed or when the user is swiping/dragging between pages)|both
|`onPageScrollStateChanged: (e: PageScrollStateChangedEvent) => void`|Function called when the page scrolling state has changed|both
|`onPageSelected: (e: PageSelectedEvent) => void`|This callback will be called once the ViewPager finishes navigating to the selected page|both
|`pageMargin: number`|Blank space to be shown between pages|both
|`keyboardDismissMode: ('none' / 'on-drag')`| Determines whether the keyboard gets dismissed in response to a drag|both
|`orientation: Orientation`|Set `horizontal` or `vertical` scrolling orientation (it does **not** work dynamically)|both
|`transitionStyle: TransitionStyle`|Use `scroll` or `curl` to change transition style (it does **not** work dynamically)|iOS
|`showPageIndicator: boolean`|Shows the dots indicator at the bottom of the view|iOS

## Preview

### Android

horizontal                 |  vertical
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/android-viewpager.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325"> |  <img src="docs/android-viewpager-vertical.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">

### iOS

horizontal - scroll      |  horizontal - curl
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/ios-viewpager-scroll.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">  |  <img src="docs/ios-viewpager-curl.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">

vertical - scroll        |  vertical - curl
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/ios-viewpager-vertical.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">  |  <img src="docs/ios-viewpager-vertical-curl.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">

Commit message:

feat(android): add support for overScrollMode (#192)

README.md, after:

# react-native-viewpager

[![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/tree/master)
[![npm package](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40react-native-community%2Fviewpager.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40react-native-community%2Fviewpager)
[![Lean Core Extracted](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lean%20Core-Extracted-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/23313)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager?color=blue)](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager/blob/master/LICENSE)

This component allows the user to swipe left and right through pages of data. Under the hood it is using the native [Android ViewPager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v4/view/ViewPager) and the [iOS UIPageViewController](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uipageviewcontroller) implementations. [See it in action!](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-viewpager#preview)

<img src="docs/viewpager-logo.png" alt="ViewPager" width="500" height="500">

## Versions

| 1.x              | 2.x              | 3.x              | 4.x                |
| ---------------- | -------------    | -------------    | -------------      |
|                  | iOS support      | iOS support      | iOS support        |
| Android support  | Android support  | AndroidX support | ViewPager2 support |

## Getting started

`yarn add @react-native-community/viewpager`

## Linking 

### >= 0.60

Autolinking will just do the job.

### < 0.60

#### Mostly automatic

`react-native link @react-native-community/viewpager`

#### Manual linking

<details>
<summary>Manually link the library on iOS</summary>
</br>

Follow the [instructions in the React Native documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/linking-libraries-ios#manual-linking) to manually link the framework or link using [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org) by adding this to your `Podfile`:

```ruby
pod 'react-native-viewpager', :path => '../node_modules/@react-native-community/viewpager'
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Manually link the library on Android</summary>
</br>
Make the following changes:

#### `android/settings.gradle`
```groovy
include ':@react-native-community_viewpager'
project(':@react-native-community_viewpager').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, '../node_modules/@react-native-community/viewpager/android')
```

#### `android/app/build.gradle`
```groovy
dependencies {
   ...
   implementation project(':@react-native-community_viewpager')
}
```

#### `android/app/src/main/.../MainApplication.java`
On top, where imports are:

```java
import com.reactnativecommunity.viewpager.RNCViewPagerPackage;
```

Add the `RNCViewPagerPackage` class to your list of exported packages.

```java
@Override
protected List<ReactPackage> getPackages() {
  return Arrays.<ReactPackage>asList(
    new MainReactPackage(),
    new RNCViewPagerPackage()
  );
}
```
</details>

## Usage

```js
import React from 'react';
import {StyleSheet, View, Text} from 'react-native';
import ViewPager from '@react-native-community/viewpager';

const MyPager = () => {
  return (
    <ViewPager style={styles.viewPager} initialPage={0}>
      <View key="1">
        <Text>First page</Text>
      </View>
      <View key="2">
        <Text>Second page</Text>
      </View>
    </ViewPager>
  );
};

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  viewPager: {
    flex: 1,
  },
});
```

## API

|Prop|Description|Platform|
|-|:-----:|:---:|
|`initialPage`|Index of initial page that should be selected|both
|`scrollEnabled: boolean`|Should viewpager scroll, when scroll enabled|both
|`onPageScroll: (e: PageScrollEvent) => void`|Executed when transitioning between pages (ether because the animation for the requested page has changed or when the user is swiping/dragging between pages)|both
|`onPageScrollStateChanged: (e: PageScrollStateChangedEvent) => void`|Function called when the page scrolling state has changed|both
|`onPageSelected: (e: PageSelectedEvent) => void`|This callback will be called once the ViewPager finishes navigating to the selected page|both
|`pageMargin: number`|Blank space to be shown between pages|both
|`keyboardDismissMode: ('none' / 'on-drag')`| Determines whether the keyboard gets dismissed in response to a drag|both
|`orientation: Orientation`|Set `horizontal` or `vertical` scrolling orientation (it does **not** work dynamically)|both
|`transitionStyle: TransitionStyle`|Use `scroll` or `curl` to change transition style (it does **not** work dynamically)|iOS
|`showPageIndicator: boolean`|Shows the dots indicator at the bottom of the view|iOS
|`overScrollMode: OverScollMode`|Used to override default value of overScroll mode. Can be `auto`, `always` or `never`. Defaults to `auto`|Android

## Preview

### Android

horizontal                 |  vertical
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/android-viewpager.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325"> |  <img src="docs/android-viewpager-vertical.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">

### iOS

horizontal - scroll      |  horizontal - curl
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/ios-viewpager-scroll.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">  |  <img src="docs/ios-viewpager-curl.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">

vertical - scroll        |  vertical - curl
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
<img src="docs/ios-viewpager-vertical.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">  |  <img src="docs/ios-viewpager-vertical-curl.gif" alt="ViewPager" width="325">
